I've got a difficult conversation I want
to have with someone and they might be a
narcissist.
>> So, let's stop there because if you just
blatantly label somebody as being a
narcissist, you're not going to be able
to really understand who this person is
and and why they are the way they are.
But when you need to go into a dark
conversation to [music] make things
simple, there are four things that you
can do because we all have those
conversations. We have a supervisor who
we feel is overlooking us in a
promotion, maybe our spouse we got in a
fight with, a friend who's betrayed us,
and they're cloaked in so much emotion
or so much tension that you don't know
how to handle that. But there's also
three things that you should stop doing,
such as stop telling people you
understand.
>> Telling them you understand.
>> Yep. Why?
>> This is what we're going to talk about.
>> For over 30 years, former Secret Service
agent Desmond O'Neal has used
sciencebacked interrogation techniques
against some of the world's biggest
liars.
>> He's trained elite teams from the FBI to
the CIA. And now, in his first public
conversation, he's [music] laying out
the frameworks you need to communicate
effectively, how to lead,
>> and how to get anyone to open up. When
it comes to being able to communicate
with somebody, the victory lies in the
little things that you do. So, you need
to have a plan. P is for purpose. So,
why are you there? What is the goal of
the conversation? Because especially in
emotional conversations, it becomes
really easy to get distracted. And if
you lose your cool, you lose control.
And then there's the A is to ask.
Because most of us think we know what
our partner is thinking, right? But the
research shows we're only accurate about
40% of the time. And if that
conversation gets emotional, that 40%
can go down as low as 15. It's called
empathy accuracy. And so the power of
asking questions is important, but when
you fail to do that, you are going to
have a really hard time having a deep,
honest relationship with somebody. And
then there's the L and the N, which most
people do wrong, and we'll go into that.
>> And then what about body language? Can
you tell if I'm being deceptive by how
much I look at someone?
>> So there's a few indicators of somebody
telling the truth, and we'll talk about
them.
>> And what about leadership principles?
>> So I learned the true essence of
leadership when I was on a SWAT team
from situations like when you're hunting
someone and they're hunting you as well.
So, let's get into the details.
>> I see messages all the time in the
comments section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you
could do me a favor and double check if
you're a subscriber to this channel,
that would be tremendously appreciated.
It's the simple, it's the free thing
that anybody that watches this show
frequently can do to help us here to
keep everything going in this show in
the trajectory it's on. So, please do
double check if you've subscribed and uh
thank you so much because in a strange
way, you are you're part of our history
and you're on this journey with us and I
appreciate you for that. So yeah, thank
you [music]
>> Desmond O'Neal. For those people that
have just clicked onto this
conversation,
what are they going to walk away from
our discussion with? So I've been in law
enforcement for 30 years and I've served
a lot of different roles in that. And
above everything else, the one thing
that I've learned is when stress is
high, when emotions are strong, when it
matters, how do you authentically
connect and communicate with somebody
else? There's something to be said about
when a conversation is easy, right? When
it's fun, when everybody wants to be
there, you can focus on your handshake.
You can focus on the eye contact, how
great your posture is. What about the
dark conversations? What about those
conversations that kind of they live in
the shadows of your mind because you
don't want to face them. You don't want
to have those, right? They're they're
cloaked in so much emotion or so much
tension that you just you don't know how
to handle that. We all have that, right?
We have a supervisor who we feel is
overlooking us in a promotion. We have,
you know, a family member who we feel
that we're just no longer getting along
with. Maybe our spouse we got in a fight
with. Maybe a friend who's betrayed us.
So, how do you have that conversation?
Like, what does that look like? Because
it comes from,
you know, for the 30 years that I've
been doing this, most of the people that
I talked to didn't want to talk to me.
And my job was to connect with them, to
find a way to get them to open up, to
find a way to have some type of
understanding and get the information
that I needed. So, this is not about
interview or interrogation. This is this
is human connection. If your audience
cares to understand how to have a dark
conversation where you can deepen that
relationship or at least come to some
type of understanding or at the very
least not walk away ruminating on
everything you said trying to figure out
what went wrong, what could you have
done different? If you've had that and
you're interested in knowing, then this
is this is where we're going to talk
about that. And to summarize in I guess
30 seconds why you're the guy that is
best placed to deliver this information,
what is what are the reference points,
the experiences, the the variety of
experience you've had that feeds into
the answers and the actionable advice
you want to give my audience?
>> My initial career started as a
corrections officer, became a police
officer and I was a SWAT officer as
well. From there I went to the federal
government. So I went to the secret
service. Uh with the secret service I
also started a polygraph career. So now
I have people that are giving me their
deepest, darkest secrets.
>> And just for context, polygraphing is a
lie detection test.
>> Polygraph is a lie detection test. So it
gives you a psychological or a
physiological response in terms of how
somebody answers a particular question.
>> Where else did your career take you
after that point?
>> I went into internal affairs and so that
is now policing the people within our
organization. So now I'm talking to men
and women who have had some of my
interrogation training. They kind of
know the questioning going on. They know
the interaction. They've done themselves
interviews and interrogations.
>> Oh, okay. So this is law enforcement
officers who have committed a crime or
some kind of mis issue or been reported
for something and your job is to
investigate them.
>> Yes. But think about that for a minute.
like you're now talking to somebody else
who, you know, maybe a year ago you were
out in the street doing work with and
now you're asking them these questions
or these for clarification on some type
of allegation.
You got to be you got to be mindful with
that. Like that's a big deal.
>> And the the interview methods that were
prevalent at that time you felt were
outdated.
>> They were. So there is in the US there's
a very historical evolution of interview
and interrogation. You know, it started
in the 1900s when policing came in. In
that circumstance, it was physical
abuse. They called it the third degree
where you would go in and, you know,
people would grind down your teeth or
they would cause pain for you to talk to
them.
>> As we've evolved as a society, that
started to go away in lie of
psychological manipulation. So, it was
less about hands-on and more about
trying to get people to talk to you from
a psychological perspective. And right
about 2014 when I went into
internal affairs, I was like, Stephen, I
was like, I just there's got to be
something different. Like, we've had to
evolved in some way in terms of what
that is. And so, you know, you have my
thesis there, right? Right about that
time, I was accepted into the Naval
Postgraduate School to pursue a masters.
And because I was looking for a better
way to interview, one of my thesis
advisors said, "Hey, have you ever heard
of the highvalue detainee interrogation
group, which the acronym is HIG?" Had
never heard of it, but the HIG when it
was created
was was three-prong, meaning that it had
a a research department, right? And it
had a practitioner department, so the
people that would do the the the
interrogations. And then it had a
trainer department. Now the trainer
department, we would do interviews,
interrogations, but we also understood
the science behind that. The reason
that's important is because you could be
a really good practitioner
and not understand why something is or
isn't working. And so being able to
cross the bridge between the the science
and understanding that and being able to
apply it in the room, that hybrid, that
connection, that sweet spot, that is
what I did. So, you did research and you
continue to do research on how to get
people to give information, how to get
information from people, how to get them
to offer up information. Is that the
crux of it?
>> Yeah.
>> So, if I'm, you know, I've got a
difficult conversation I want to have
with someone, this person is
antagonistic, they often gaslight me,
they might be a narcissist, and I'm
walking into that conversation or, you
know, I'm overthinking it. I'm thinking,
"God, I need to have this conversation."
Where's the first place to start? So the
first place that I would start is don't
label the people how you just label
them.
>> Okay.
>> And that's a problem. So you just
labeled somebody a narcissist. Why does
that matter to you?
>> I think it allows me to blame them. I
guess
>> allows you to blame but but tell me tell
me in your perspective what's a
narcissist?
>> That they are they are low empathy. They
are self-centered. They are a little bit
aggressive maybe.
>> Okay. So let's stop there. Do you think
personally that there are times in your
life where you lack empathy?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So empathy is very situationally
based. So meaning that it's also
subjective. Meaning if you feel this
person is not giving you certain
empathy, okay, maybe um a bit
self-centered, a bit aggressive, you the
reason I ask you these things is because
if you just blatantly label somebody as
being like this person's a narcissist,
you've just you've just made it easy for
yourself. You've just put blame on them
and you're not going to be able to
really understand who this person is and
and why they are the way they are. So
the first thing that I would do is I
would take away the labels as how you
define them as you're going into that.
What was the other thing you said in
terms of what they were? They were
narcissists. They were something else.
>> Um they gaslight.
>> So second thing uh which is interesting
because we actually within our training
uh program we just did a big class on
gaslighting because it's important to
understand
what is gaslighting and what when is it
not gaslighting. So for you cuz you said
this person gaslights you. What is What
are they gaslighting you about?
>> Um, when I bring something up, they make
me feel like
I'm to blame. When I when I bring up how
I feel, maybe they make me feel like I'm
to blame, like I did something wrong.
>> Okay. Does that always happen?
>> More often than not.
>> Okay. More often than not. So, it's
something that it sounds like that when
you go in and you're talking to this
different person, whatever the
circumstances is, they are they're
trying to discredit you or make you feel
like maybe you don't know really what
happened.
>> They're not listening. They're just
always throwing it back on me, saying
that I did something to deserve it.
>> And what was the third thing you said?
>> A little bit like aggressive,
antagonistic. So,
>> okay.
>> Their their emotions go up and it kind
of makes me shut down.
>> Okay.
>> They kind of flood the zone. So, when
you need to go into a dark conversation,
here are the four things that you can do
to stay engaged and involved in in in
what's about to happen, right? And in
how this is going to hopefully go
through. And what we say is you need to
have a plan. And there's the acronym
about that, P, right? L A N. So, the P
is for purpose.
And the purpose is why are you there?
What's the reason? What's the mission?
You have to understand your mission
because your mission is going to drive
your tactics. Your mission is going to
determine if things get off track. If
this person becomes aggressive, this
person starts to be insulting. If my
mission at that moment is to deepen my
conversation with them and deepen my
relationship in some way, and this
starts to get ugly in the middle, your
mission should keep you on track because
you can get pulled from that very
quickly. There's something called
multiple goals theory. And multiple
goals theory is the understanding that
at any given time we will pursue
simultaneous goals. And typically those
goals would be something task oriented.
You know I want to I want to finish a
tasking. I want to get something done.
There's going to be a component of
identity in there meaning that how do I
feel? What are my emotions going on
during the course of this? And then
there's going to be relational. So it's
going to be my relationship with this
person at the time. Now, a lot of times
within multiple goals theory, those
things can align. So, and I'll give you
example like if you're playing a sport,
you're on a team. Uh the team goal, your
goal within that team, the task is to
win, to put on more points than the
other person. That's the task. The
identity aspect of that is am I a good
player? Do do I want the ball? Do I get
the ball? Am I contributing? Am I the
superstar? Is there some type of
identity and how this makes me feel
about myself being being a sports star
in some capacity? And the relationship
part of that is
how do my teammates feel about me? Am I
inter am I a good teammate in terms of
what that was? Those things can align.
You can see when that is misaligned when
all of a sudden somebody what they would
call a ball hog, somebody takes the shot
all the time or they won't pass it
around and you're like
>> Ronaldo,
>> what are you doing? Right? And it's one
of these things where like you are more
concerned about your identity than you
are about the team winning. That's a
problem. That's when you can see there's
a misalignment of goals. Or something
that's even more simple would be let's
say you're in a meeting with uh a boss
or a colleague and it's a pretty
important meeting. You're you're trying
to close a deal and your boss says
something that's wrong. Now
you have to make a decision. You could
either correct your boss in front of
everybody or you could preserve his or
her dignity and address them at a later
time. You have to decide which one of
those is most important. You have to
understand your purpose of being in that
meeting because maybe I could let this
go. It's not that big of a deal because
if I correct my boss, this may affect my
relationship with them at a later time.
This could ruin my career in terms of
being transferred or or not being on a
project. So when you're looking at
goals, you have to understand what the
overall objective is. It becomes
Stephen, it becomes, especially in
emotional conversations, it becomes
really easy to to get distracted. Really
easy.
>> So I go into that conversation with my
colleague who is problematic. My goal
with them, let's say, is to get them to
stop. I'm actually thinking about
earlier in my career when I used to work
in call centers on the phone and um
[clears throat] there was one particular
lady that sat next to me that was always
a little bit rude and always put me down
a little bit bit patronizing. So I I in
hindsight wish I could have you know
taken her aside and had a conversation
with her and said listen the way you're
speaking to me is very disrespectful or
you're putting me down or patronizing
me. Please can you stop doing that? My
goal would have been to to get her to
stop.
>> It is to get her to do that, but the
crux of that is to understand why she's
doing it because that's going to allow
me to fix this in some way if it if it's
fixable. I I'll share the story with
you. In 1991,
an 11-year-old girl named JC Duggard was
kidnapped by a man named Philip Gerrio
and his wife Nancy. And Philip and Nancy
kept JC Duggard for 18 years. He
fathered two children with her. One when
she was 14 and one when she was 17. And
in 2009,
they found her and him at Berkeley. They
arrested him, arrested his wife. 2011,
he was, you know, tried, convicted.
Three years prior to that,
there was a young girl named Michaela
Garrett who had gone missing, never been
found in a county over west of Elorado
in a county named Alama County. There
was a lot of suspicion that Philillip
was the one who did this as well. And
one of my one of my colleagues was the
prosecuting attorney for Elorado County,
California. His name is Vern Pearson.
And Vern said, I'd like to close this or
get some type of understanding. Can you
go and interview Philip? So I looked at
all the information on Philip. He had
written a manifesto in terms of how to
cure pedophilia. And I went to Vern. I
said, "All right, I'm let's go do this
and he goes, "What do you need like a
day, a couple of hours?" And I said, "I
need four days." And my goal was to do a
deep dive into the things that he had
done. He was a a serial rapist, uh, a
serial kidnapper, and to understand his
life in the time frame by which Michaela
Garrett went missing. And so this was
the evolution of what I was trying to
do. So I show up, he walks in, says,
"Who are you?" I said, "Well, I'm
special agent O'Neal. I'd like to talk
to you about um your history. I read
your manifesto and I had some questions.
And he said,
you know, uh, when they told me I had a
visitor, he goes, I wasn't going to come
in. He goes, but the angels on my
shoulder tell me that this would be a
good good talk. So he said, let's do it.
We talked in detail every day for
probably 8 to nine hours. They brought
him food. And the end of each day, I
would say, Phillip, um, I will be here
tomorrow. If the if the angels on your
shoulder tell you to show up, please do.
If not, then it was nice to meet you.
And every day he showed up. Why did you
say that?
>> There there's a there's a depth of
understanding in terms of the headsp
space that he is in. And so when you can
connect like genuinely connect with that
you you truly try to understand another
person and [snorts]
there's power with that in the course of
those 36 hours. Multiple times he was
very aggressive. He was very
condescending. He called me a liar.
Things he accused me of you. I don't
believe you are who you say you are. I
don't believe you're here for the things
you're saying you're here for. Um I
don't even know if he worked for the
federal government. And he's essentially
questioned my integrity. Now, my purpose
is not to make him feel that I'm smarter
than him. Is not to
belittle or berate him or or have a a
question of, you know, integrity. Cuz I
could have said, "You kidnapped an
11-year-old girl and kept her captive
for 18 years, fathered two children with
her, the first one at the age of 14."
and your question of my integrity. I
didn't do that because that's not why I
was there. And so despite the fact that
he got upset, despite the fact that he
called me and accused me of all these
different things, I stayed on my
purpose. I stayed on my mission. And
when we were done, when we finished, I
went back to the prosecuting attorney
and said, "He's not your guy." And he
said, "Are you sure?" And I said, "I bet
my career on it."
>> How did you know? There's a lot of
things in regards to when you're looking
at people from the perspective of
telling the truth in terms of the way
that they they talk and engage with you.
Our conversation on Tuesday and our
conversation on Wednesday and our
conversation on Thursday and our
conversation on Friday all stayed very
consistent. If I'm asking him for
further clarification, he's providing
for further clarification. If I'm
talking to him about, you know,
something and there's some type of
spontaneous correction where he's like,
"Wait a minute. This happened uh before
this, those are those are indicators of
of truth. And if there are things that
you know, he he talks about in terms of
like things that are of complication.
Nobody's day goes perfect." And you know
there were many times when he was
telling me about the things he had done
because you know he was a serial rapist
you know and a serial you know kidnapper
and he would drive around and pick up
women and hitchhiking and he would you
know rape them and let them go. Often
times we would get into the details of
like when those didn't go well right and
when all of a sudden the the girl would
would fight him off and run away and so
there was all these different
complications and different things that
he would talk about. He handled the
complications consistently is what
you're saying.
>> When complications are introduced to a
story, right, people who lie don't do
that, right? It's truth tellers will
often do that because it's just like
this is just what happened. Like these
are the things that happened. This is my
life in terms of where things were going
to go. Overall, in terms of how that
conversation went, there were those type
of indicators that just made it trend
more truthful than not. like there
wasn't this big gap or this big weird
moment when we're talking about Michaela
Garrett to where all of a sudden it's
like missing pieces that I have to put
in there. There are no cues to
deception. There are things that all of
a sudden seem different and require you
to do more
questions, more asking, but that didn't
occur around the time that we were
looking for with that.
>> Okay. So, we finally when we finished
and then they went back and they looked
at the evidence, they found a new
fingerprint and were able to um charge
and convict uh the person who did that.
The reason I bring all of that up is
because for the purpose aspects of what
we're talking about,
not losing sight of what your mission
is, being focused in terms of what that
is. The power of communication and
staying online as it relates to what you
want to accomplish is really powerful
because it keeps you on track and it
keeps you engaged and reminds you of why
you're there. Not every relationship
deserves that. Like there's just some
relationships you're like, "This just
isn't worth it for me." If it matters to
you, that mattered to me. It mattered to
me not because for me, it mattered to me
for that family. And there is a
difference between having a profession
and being a professional. Having a
profession is what you do. Being a
professional is the culmination of
everything that you've done at that
moment, at that time for a specific
purpose. And that's what I had to bring
in with that because that was what was
at stake with this.
>> Um, so you have
>> this these four cards in front of you.
We've done the P which is staying
focused on your purpose when you go into
conversation to to fend off the emotion
which might distort you and take you
off. And I'm so guilty of that.
>> You know,
>> everybody is
>> so guilty of that with especially with
like you know
>> conversations with with my partner where
there's emotion involved and there's
some areas where you know blame might be
>> prevalent. So the L that you have there.
So the L
is listen this becomes the thing that
people are worst at because it's a lot
to do. Think about right now think about
my conversation with you at this moment.
I'm speaking so internally my internal
vocabulary and the conversation that I'm
having in my head is running about 800
to a,000 words a minute. I'm speaking to
you in about 120 to 150 words a minute.
There's a lot that's being edited.
There's a lot of things that I think
that I'm saying or I want to say. I'm
trying to engage with you. There's also
something called theory of mind, which
is me watching you and trying to
understand
is what I'm saying on point with what
Stephen wants to hear or wants to hear
for his audience. Do I need to change
anything? Does this landing on him? And
then if your non-verbals change or your
verbal changed, then I have to readjust
maybe what I'm editing and my theory of
mine will readjust too because I'm like,
"Oh, I just lost him here. I have to I
have to readjust." Simultaneously,
you are listening to me and you're
listening to the 120 to 150 words I'm
giving you, but your brain can process
this at like 4 to 600 words per minute.
So, you have too much cognitive
bandwidth. you have the ability to
listen to me and then do multiple other
things which is oftentimes why people
will drift out or you'll start thinking
of something else or you'll think of
your your notepad because you got it you
got it figured out and this is when it
becomes really easy to be convinced and
not curious because you're like I kind
of know where this is going and so you
check out so you actually have to do
something called cognitive inhibition
you have to kind of narrow that
bandwidth to stay fully engaged with me
that's why when you hear people say like
active listening it's hard it's hard to
do because you have to be attentive to
the other person. You have to listen.
You have to look. You have to pick up
their verbal and their non-verbal
behavior. And you then you have to do
something with that. Steven CVY says
most people don't listen with the intent
to understand.
They listen with the intent to reply.
And if you are simply just waiting for
your turn to talk, then you and I are
not are not connecting.
Controlling conversation comes from
listening, not talking. So if I'm trying
to if I'm trying to get some information
out of someone, I should have a bias
towards just letting them speak at me.
>> You should, you know, you hear about
this like always let the other person
talk more. That's great. But if both
people are doing that, then the
conversation is not progressing. The
conversation is an extension of what you
and I are speaking with. And when we've
gone from listening in terms of what
that looks like, the next thing you have
to do which gets into this is the A
which is which is ask. Right? So the A
being this. If you are paying attention
to me and you're picking up on things
that I'm saying,
the changes in my body language, and
there's something you don't understand,
you need to ask. This is where you're
going to deepen the conversation. This
is where you show somebody that you're
active listening. you're curious and
you're open and you're trying to
understand them. If you look at empathy
research, we typically think that we can
understand our significant other or
different people at a much higher level
than we actually do. For a stranger,
it's called it's called empathy
accuracy. For a stranger, your ability
to understand their headsp space is like
20%. For
a friend, somebody close to you, it's
like 30. For your significant other,
it's no higher than 40%. Which means
that despite you thinking that you know
what she's thinking, you got a four out
of 10 chance of being right. And if that
conversation gets emotional, that 40%
can go down as low as 15 because you
start to pull in to be like, I I'm I'm
guarding myself here. I'm guarding my
ego. When your ego is on the line, your
ears go offline because you stop hearing
what she's having to say and you start
protecting yourself in terms of what
you're trying to do. So your ability to
be empathetic when things are hard
becomes harder and you have to be very
mindful of that. Let's say you come home
from early morning workout and your
spouse says, "Hey Stephen, uh, how was
it?" And you say, "That's pretty tough."
There's a lot that you can do with that.
This is what she could do. She could say
nothing. So now maybe you understand
that maybe she doesn't want to talk
about this or she's not interested in
it. That's one. The second thing she
could say to you would be like, "Well,
sweetheart, that's why you look the way
you do." She has now made the
assumption, right, her her empathy
accuracy that she knows what you meant
by the word tough. And so if she says to
you, "Well, that's how you look and
that's not what you meant." Now you feel
that there's a separation between what
you're hoping she would pick up on and
what you actually said. The third thing
she could say would be like, "What do
you mean by tough?" Because the
ambiguity of that is the word tough. Who
knows what that means? It could be a lot
of different things. She's now showing
you, "I'm into you. I'm tuning in." In
the power of something like that, when
you talk about deepening relationships
and increasing that connection, that's
how it happens. The same thing with your
non-verbal behavior, right? You look at
non-verbal behavior, 66% of of what we
give is non-verbal. And so if I through
the course of my conversation with you,
if all of a sudden we're talking and
you're just like
>> folding my arms.
>> So folding your arms could be a sign of
just you're folding your arms. It could
be a sign of you not liking my question
if you roll your eyes. So if I see that
and it matters to me, then I need to say
something to the effect of it seems like
versus I think because I think is the
pronoun saying it's about me and it's
just like I don't care what you think.
It seems like what you just did maybe
was because you didn't like what I had
to say because I saw you cross your arms
and roll your eyes.
Do I have that right? So now you have a
choice where you can either say you yes
you got that right for these reasons or
no I just followed him because I was
comfortable and you know whatever the
case may be but it is a matter if I see
you and there and it's and it's in
harmony with the conversation that we
were having that seems like it's a you
know something that shows that it could
be
potentially a problem. I need to ask
about it. you and I having a
conversation right now and you folding
your arms isn't going to be like a red
flag that I'm like, "Oh, I just saw you
folded your arms when I said that." But
if it's something that there's some
emotionate around that and it's
important and I'm trying to express
something to you and I see you roll your
eyes or cross your arms. Hey, hey,
Stephen, I noticed when I brought up
this thing about our family, um, you
kind of leaned back and crossed your
arms and rolled your eyes. It seems like
you didn't approve of that. Is is that
Do I have that right? So, now it's on
you to explain that or not. On this
point of body language, um, as someone
that sits here and I guess interviews
people for like, you know, four or five
hours at a time sometimes,
over the last 5 years, I have come to
learn certain body language um, patterns
in my guests.
>> Okay.
>> One of the most obvious ones is when I
ask the guest a question that is causing
them some potential discomfort in some
way. And when I say discomfort, I should
probably define that as
maybe it's a difficult question for
whatever reason.
>> Sure.
>> What I tend to see is I tend to see them
cross their arms.
>> Okay.
>> That's like a really consistent pattern.
It's almost like a it's almost as if
they're telling me that this is a little
bit difficult and it's it holds to be
true.
>> Do you ask them?
>> I noticed when you crossed your arms,
you know, when I asked you that
question, is it something with this
question that bothered you or do you
just let it go?
>> I let it go, but it but it's they've
already told me.
>> Okay. So, I've already I don't need to
ask them because I I know I now know
that there's something there where
there's emotion.
>> Sure.
>> It's kind of the way that I I see it.
>> It's what it is. More than likely, it's
what it is. And I think there's power to
that because your perception, right? So,
it's you bring this back like your
pattern recognition of all the guests
that you've done and the association or
the the connection of that in terms of
the question that you ask and they cross
their arms. Like, that's where that
comes from. That's where that all of a
sudden that thing where you're just
like, I feel it, but I don't really know
it. It's just like you don't know that
to be the case because it could be a
number of different things but because
of the pattern recognition you see it
all the time that gives you the chance
of saying this is there's some emotion
here. So either engage it or tread
lightly depending on which way you want
to go
>> both. Yeah.
>> And that's what happens. So instead of
saying like you know why why did you
cross your arms? I will ask them
potentially how how that memory makes
them feel or how they they feel about
that. And
>> and that tends to be it's just it's so
you know because people always talk you
know they say does body language matter
does it count for anything? Can you
interpret someone's body language to
understand if they're telling you the
truth? Is any of this stuff true in your
in your view?
>> No.
You should you should look at body
language because it it it it is a
language in terms of what somebody is is
showing you, you look at body language
and if you see something that is a
change, just like the cross in your
arms, then you need to be curious about
it.
>> So, it's really about a change in state.
>> It's a change of it's a change of what
somebody's doing and the timing of that.
So you just said like when I ask
something that is personal or emotional,
they'll talk about it. They'll cross
their arms because maybe it's just now
like the psychological thing where I
want to guard myself a little bit. Maybe
I want to kind of close up a little bit.
Who knows? But if it's something where
you're just like, I noticed it and you
don't need to use it. Like you could ask
them if you wanted to, but you're just
like, oh, they already they already told
me, so I don't need it. But for anybody
else, if you see that and you're talking
and somebody crosses their arms, don't
just assume that's what it is. Because
if you assume and you're wrong, you're
going down the wrong track.
[clears throat]
>> And so throughout this framework for
having hard conversations, we've covered
the P which is stick your purpose, the L
the which is listen, A which is to ask.
>> Ask.
>> Is there anything else in the framework?
>> The N
which is the next steps. So
to have a plan means to understand all
of these different things and the way
that you approach that. And the next
steps is how do you want to resolve
this? Like what's the end goal with
this? Is there anything that I can do
that we can you know further our
relationship where both you and I can
can be in alignment.
>> Do you ask them or do you propose?
>> I would always ask them if I'm engaged.
Right. So perhaps let's go back to the
the conversation that you may have with
you know this this individual. or you're
just like this person's a narcissist and
so forth. If you're engaging them and
you're the one who wants to really have
this conversation and you're hoping that
you can find some type of resolution,
you have to ask if there's resolution
with that. So something to the effect
of, do you think that you and I can find
an amicical way forward where when I
when you and I engage, you know, we can
really enjoy each other's time and and
this thing not go bad. Like do you see
that in our future at all? Yes or no?
And then it's either yes. Okay. What
does that look like for us? Like how do
we have that? because I am I'm having
this conversation with you because my
relationship with you matters, but there
are things that happen within that are
that are frustrating and that cause me
not to really want to engage. I do want
to find a way to do that because that is
most important to me. How best do we do
that? There is no magic bullet by which
makes everything every conversation go
perfect. There's none. You are you are
part of that conversation. The other
person is part of that conversation. You
have your perspective. They have their
perspective. You have what you think is
right or or or think is fair. Fairness
is subjective because what you think is
fair is just means what you think is
fair. And so
the hardest part is to walk away and
feeling like you should there should
have done more you can do. The power
becomes knowing how to address that. And
if it doesn't go right then you walk
away and be like you know what it just
didn't go right and I'm okay with that.
>> What if they start insulting you in the
conversation?
>> Okay. What's your purpose of being in
the conversation?
I'm trying to get them to stop being so
rude to me when we're on the same bank
of telephones at the call center.
>> So, it is a matter of if she's being
rude to you, it's it's addressing that
at the moment, right? You know, I I
noticed that we're having this
conversation that you're being really
aggressive, really rude, and really
condescending.
>> So, you cool it out.
>> Yeah. Be very specific in terms of what
it is. Like, you know, if she if she
calls you and she uses, you know, she
calls you a name or whatever the case
may be, like, you know what, you're
being rude. and she's just like, "What
did I do?" And you're like, "You're just
being rude." That's unhelpful. Like,
give her the context by which you feel
that she's being rude. Because maybe she
does something outside of a name where
you're like, "You're being rude." And
maybe to her that's not rudeness. Maybe
it's her directness, right? But if she's
like, "You know what? You're Stephen,
you're just an asshole." Or whatever the
case may be. And I would say, "Hey, it
seems like as of right now, like, you
know, you're very condescending. You've
called me a name to include an
Can you explain to me specifically right
now why that is?" and make her back it
up. Make her explain to you what it is
that is there something about is there
something about me you don't like? Is
there something about my my work ethic
that you don't like or maybe the way
that I'm doing this? You've been here
longer than me. So is perhaps there's
something else that I'm doing or not
doing that you think is wrong because I
am not understanding your anger and your
venom and your need to insult me and I
would really try to understand what that
is. So, you're having a very direct
conversation with her, very specific to
what she's saying. It does not mean that
that's going to fix it. She could just
be an And it's one of those
things where you have to be like, I am
going to address this. I'm not going to
return in kind. I don't have to turn
into that person as well. I can walk
away from that conversation and be like,
you know what, I handled that the best I
could. Doesn't mean it's going to fix
it. Are there any tactics that
interrogators are taught or that you
teach interrogators for keeping your
emotions in check? Because, you know, we
we go into those conversations, someone
calls you an you your cortisol
starts spiking, you get into your
amydala, you get stressed, you get
emotional, you end up calling them an
back. But is there I don't know,
is there breath work? What what do
interrogators get taught
>> in the heat of the moment? At the at
that time, you have no time to do breath
work. This is real time stuff in terms
of what you're trying to do. If you go
in and you understand your purpose and
again I don't mean to go back to the
plan but what happens is you become you
can be pulled out very quickly and all
of a sudden if you are trying to get
information from somebody and one of
their strategies because they maybe
don't want to give you information one
of their strategies is to insult you and
now you're insulting them back one
you're not going to get anything two you
fell under their strategy so what you
have to do is you have to address that I
am something to the effect of I see that
when I asked you matter and all of a
sudden like it seems like there's a
change in our relationship to where now
you're being really aggressive. Why is
that?
>> So, you're continually calling it out.
>> Yes. Because I am asking you to back up
your emotions. If if because if it's if
it's BS, if you're just doing that
because you're trying to hide the ball
someplace else, I'm going to call you
out on it. It's also showing me that I
am not afraid to confront this type of
behavior and I'm seeing it and I am I am
really trying to engage with you in a
very amicable genuine way and if you are
going to treat me a certain way I am
going to understand what that is. You're
also showing that you're not doing it in
kind
>> is part of this showing that you're
strong. It's less about being strong and
more about being competent and confident
in what you're doing. Because if you
allow
in anybody, not just an interrogation
room, in in any in any conversation, if
you lose your cool, you lose control.
You have to be mindful of that. I was
overseeing a an internal affairs
interview uh and I was going to go in
and talk to this person at the end. I
was thinking about doing a polygraph
with them, but before that was going to
happen, the the case agent, the person
who had the investigation was talking to
the subject. It was a road rage incident
where this uh agent uh had been accused
of road rage and pulling his gun out on
a civilian. So, this was the
conversation that they were that they
were having. And I'm listening to this
in an interview room, right? In in terms
of like a two-way two-way mirror. And
the subject is very aggressive. He's
very angry and he's very angry to the
point of like he's like, "I don't know
why you don't believe me with this. I
keep telling you these things and you
keep asking me the same questions. I
think this is a bunch of BS." The
investigator comes back and he's just
like, "Because I think you're a liar and
you're not telling me the truth in terms
of what it is and you're causing us to
be in this room a lot longer and this is
a problem." So now they are both yelling
at each other, like yelling at each
other. And it was one of these things
where I'm watching this unfold. And it
wasn't the subject's job to maintain his
composure. It was the investigators
because his goal is not to belittle this
other agent. His goal was to find out
did this or did this not happen. And he
lost sight of that. And he came out of
the room to me and he's like, "What do
you think?" And I'm like, "Well, I'm not
going to polygraph him. I mean, this
guy's so emotional right now. Like
that's not going to happen." And he
goes, "You know what? This guy's just an
anyway." And I'm like, I don't
think he's the in the room. The
other guy was the in the room
because he allowed himself to get pulled
out of what he should have been doing
because now he wanted to have the game
of who's the bigger who's the bigger
jerk in the room, you can do it. And
again, if you want to burn that bridge,
burn it. But if if you want to maintain
a relationship or you want to maintain
your profession or you are trying to get
to some resolution, you cannot lose your
cool. I guess that's what it comes down
to is most of the time we're not clear
on the goal going into the conversation.
So we we have nothing to be anchored to.
So just it's we it's getting into the
washing machine.
>> Absolutely what it is.
>> We just spin around and around and
around and
>> absolutely
>> walk away with a nice relationship.
>> And the power really comes from if this
person is insulting you and they're
angry and they're doing these things and
you're sitting there and you're asking
good questions, you're keeping your
composure. There is a lot of power with
that. And I mean power in a in a way
that shows like I'm in I'm in control of
myself. I am well aware of what's going
on as this relationship and this
conversation is is happening. Uh I am
not going to fall into this because this
matters to me in terms of this other
thing.
>> I've [snorts] heard you say that you
think people suffer from me me syndrome.
What does that mean?
So the me me syndrome is everything
everything is about me right I mean it
seems obvious with that but like you can
even look at things from like a cultural
perspective you can look at like here
you know in in the US in western
civilizations like we are primarily like
a dignity culture where we are it's all
about us right it's all about that
internal that internal feeling that that
we have and so everything is predicated
on our job our success the things that
we do the external world doesn't really
matter in terms of our our success or
failure. So a lot of it is what is in
your headsp space and how do you manage
that because the problem that I see and
what I think comes with in communication
is
we do
a lot of self-reflection.
We rarely do a lot of outward reflection
on the other person. Some of the best
negotiators there will spend more than
half of their time thinking about
somebody else. So, a very personal
story. Um, when I was 21, my father
passed away and he had been battling
cancer for for three years. And so, when
he passed away, uh, I have four siblings
and my mom was there. So, when he passed
away, he passed away at home and all
five of us were there.
Several years later, uh, I'm having this
conversation on the day that my dad died
about the day that my dad died. I'm
having this with my my sister and my
three younger brothers and we're talking
about where we were and so forth. And my
sister says, "Yeah, I I can't watch the
Simpsons without thinking of of dad."
And I said, "What do you what do you
mean?" She's like, "Well, the the the TV
was there and the Simpsons were on." And
she's like, "I always just remember
that." And I was like, "There's a
there's a TV in the room?" She's like,
"You don't remember a TV being in the
room?" And I'm like, "I have absolutely
not. I have no idea that there's a TV in
the room. I didn't code it. that wasn't
the thing that was important. Her
perspective and the way that she saw
that moment affected her differently
than everybody else in that room. And so
to go back to the me me, when you fail
to take in consideration that other
people have other experiences based on
how they pick up the world, how they do
things in the world, and you think that
it's just about you, you're you are
going to have a really hard time having
a deep, honest, connective relationship
with somebody if it's just about you.
You can do it. And a lot of people do
it. you know, they're looking for that
that way to, you know, make people drawn
to them and make people connect to them
and and that's fine. But if you are
trying to
I guess Stephen, if you just want to be
like a genuine person and you want to
have a relationship, don't make it about
you. I've just finished writing my third
book. I haven't firmed up the title yet,
but I have started mocking up some
different designs. And I've been doing
this with Adobe Express, which is one of
our sponsors. What I love about Adobe
Express is that it makes it so easy for
me to obsess over the tiniest details.
The typography, the font, the color, the
text placement, the stuff that might
sound petty to most people, but actually
compounds to create something that
stands out, something that's one better
than the rest. And designing my cover
art has reminded me of how many creative
things I've learned over the year. But
it's also reminded me that there are so
many creative minds around me that are
also sitting on their own secrets. So,
I've created the one better guide in
Adobe Express to bring those tips to
you. And in it, you'll find principles
from the very, very best in their
industry turned into quick and easy
practices for you to apply so you can
train yourself to create exactly like
the best performing teams in the world
do. Just head over to adobe.bet
to download Adobe Express now and make
sure you visit the learn tab to discover
how you can become one better than the
rest. I was thinking this earlier. I was
thinking one of the things in the p this
podcast that I've learned is if I um if
I want to increase the probability that
someone opens up and tells me something,
one of the things I do is I share
myself.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you know, I might be asking someone
about their childhood and it's quite
clear to me now that one of the ways,
especially if they end up crossing their
arms and get uncomfortable.
>> Yeah.
>> Is just to pause for a second and share
my own childhood.
>> Yeah.
>> So, if I've identified that one of your
values is, I don't know, you want to be
a good family man. Might you mention
that you're a family man yourself as a
way to build a bridge? So if it's
honest, so so that's a great question,
but this becomes a thing where you have
to look at things if you were trying to
influence or manipulate somebody. If
it's honest and it fits within that
conversation at that moment because this
is what I based on our conversation I
think this person needs to hear, then
sure, if it's real. If it's not, if I'm
lying to him because I'm trying to say,
"Well, I'm a family man. You're a family
man. Like we're we're good." Now you're
now you're manipulating the person and
that's a whole different conversation.
So to go back to what you said, if if I
understand this guy's values and I
understand that there is a sense of
let's say a sense of honesty, maybe
there's a part of this person that's
also honest or there's also a sense of
he wants to be
I don't know, he wants his kids to see
him as a as a as a man of integrity,
right? Let's just say that. So maybe
maybe that starts to become a
conversation that we have as it relates
to um you know I can only imagine you
know the difficulty that this has with
you as as you've told me you know you're
a family man. I'm not going to say
you're a family man. I'm going to say as
you told me you're a family man. And one
of the things that you said about being
a family man was how important is your
kids to to kind of like lead by your mo
your model like your role model aspects
of that by honesty and openness and and
and those type of things. So do you hear
where I'm going? So I'm trending in the
direction by which that I am trying to
bring online still his father but a
different value under what it means to
be a father because I don't want to talk
about being present because that's
probably going to go away. But if he is
trying to teach his kids to own your
mistakes then maybe that's the direction
I go. But how am I going to get that?
I'm gonna get that because I'm going to
start off my conversation with him in a
very honest, genuine way that I'm going
to try to understand who is this person
across from me.
>> And what's the difference between
manipulation and influence?
>> Influence is about nudging a person in a
certain direction at a certain time
that's beneficial for both you and them.
That's influence. Got it? Mhm.
[clears throat]
>> Manipulation is you nudging a person in
a specific direction
because it's good for you. It's not good
for them. And so you'll lie. You'll
you'll do whatever you need to do to to
close a deal to get them to do something
to give them to give you something.
That's manipulation because it's often
one of those things that it has negative
consequences to it in terms of the
person who did it. You know, maybe they
never know, but you manipulated them,
>> which is interrogations. No, because
this guy's going to go he's going to get
life in jail if he admits that he killed
this child. So, I'm that's not in his
interests, but it's in mine. So, I'm
going to manipulate him to give me the
secrets.
>> If that's what you want to do and that's
the direction you think you need to do,
then by all means, you can do it. And
here in the US, it is legal that you can
lie to
>> subjects. But,
>> so you're saying lying is the the the
moment where it becomes manipulation.
>> Yes. that becomes the shortcut and that
becomes a way not just within the
interrogation room like I think what
becomes important and I've seen this
come up a lot people are all about like
influence like you hear that come up
quite a bit if you want to influence
somebody this is how you do it you're
honest with them you're clear and you're
transparent because influence is about
how do I feel about you not about all
the things that you're doing at that
moment because if I don't if trusted is
isn't even on the table if I don't trust
you to begin with or I think that to go
back to what you had said there's this
pattern recognition where I'm like I
just think there's something wrong with
this. You're not going to be able to
influence me if I am honest with you in
everything that I do because that's how
I carry myself. Not only does it lower
your cognitive load because you're not
lying to somebody else, but it
underscores who you stand for and who
you are as a person. And with that,
people are going to see that and say,
you know what, Stephen's very
transparent. He said this was a good
deal and I believe that for these
reasons. It's a matter of you being
honest with that. I I always question
now like because I see it a lot and it
came up in the in the questions that
that I was talking to your team about.
It's like why does everybody want to
influence somebody? Like why why do they
what what is that? Do you know like why
does it come up all the time?
>> Because
what are people trying to accomplish?
>> They want to accomplish something. They
have a goal
>> for who?
>> For themselves,
>> right? So is that is that influence?
But it gets the job done for some for
some people.
>> Sure it does.
>> I'm thinking about that. Is it Cariegi?
What's that book? It's probably behind
me somewhere called influence and it
talks about the this five pillars of
influence things like scarity.
>> So it's uh Robert Chaldini.
>> Oh yeah.
>> We teach that, right? It's one of those
where you can understand why influence
works, the different strategies of
influence, like what they all stand for
and when they fit within the within the
conversation. You can do it. I do it.
But I can I can tell you, Stephen, being
a being a communication specialist, I
don't spend my day walking around trying
to influence people. I will be honest
with people. I will be transparent. I
will answer their questions with the
best information that I have. And if
people are inspired by that and and and
that causes somebody to be influenced by
the things that I said, that's that's
what I want, right? And I brought this
up earlier, but the the training academy
that that you know that I instruct with,
it is all about openness. It's all about
honesty. It's all about trying to help
people based on why they've come to us.
And it's not about manipulating people
to to come in and be a member. It's
about why are you here and how can we
help you? And this is the best way we
can do that. And that influences people
and that inspires people to to listen to
what you have to say. Why why is your
podcast this successful? The first time
you and I met, you said something that I
disagreed with.
>> What was that?
>> And it was you were talking about Flight
Story and you were talking about the
different things you you you know with
Flight Story and the success of the
podcast and you said it's not because
I'm a good interviewer. It's because
they're really good at marketing. You're
a good interviewer because of the
vulnerabilities that you do. Every time
I've been surprised on how vulnerable
and open you are in terms of sharing
with yourself like there's that story
arc in terms of how that connection is
because of that you influence me not
because you're trying to not because
your team reached out but because of the
way you carried yourself in your podcast
and the questions that you ask and the
vulnerability that you're showing. There
is a level of trust that comes with
that. And so you in you weren't trying
to influence you were being you. And
there's a part of your self- congruence,
who you are, your ideal self, which is
just like, this is just what I do, and
my life's not perfect, and I'll share
the parts that are messy, and I'm trying
to use this as a platform to help
millions of people. That's a big deal.
>> And is this how you build trust with
people
or is trust a different or adjacent
point?
>> So trust is about being vulnerable.
Trust is about being open
and sharing a little bit about yourself.
So truly, Stephen, the question becomes,
is what I've shared with you in good
hands? Because if it's not, that's a
problem,
>> right?
>> Mhm.
>> Let me ask you a question. Do you have a
secret that maybe you've never told
anybody or you've told just one or two
people?
>> Yeah,
>> you do. You got one in mind?
>> Yeah.
>> What is it? [laughter]
>> I can't. There's millions of people
listening.
>> Okay. But but if these millions of
people weren't watching, would you tell
me?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, the reason that you're not
telling me or in front of these millions
of people is why why are you not why are
you not telling us your secret?
>> Um because of consequence.
>> Okay.
>> Some someone's going to clip it.
Someone's going to put it on the
internet. Someone's me up.
>> There's a reason for it, right? There's
a reason that you're not trusting in
terms of what it was. Maybe you trust me
just because of the the relationship
that we've built to this point. Um, but
there's probably other things that you
wouldn't trust me with. When you talk
about trust, I if you look at concentric
rings, you know, in terms of the the
trust around you, the the center ring
should be selfrust. It should be you.
You should be able to trust yourself
more than you trust anybody else. If you
don't, you probably need to do a little
bit of work, right?
>> What does that mean in reality of me
trusting myself? Do you trust that you
will do the things that you want to do
or you ought to do or do do you keep
yourself in that direction? Do you keep
yourself accountable?
>> Right? That becomes this thing where can
you make decisions? Are you a person
like I don't make any decisions. I let
somebody else make decisions or I run
everything by everybody else because I
don't trust myself to make the right
decision. Then you have to work on your
decision-m because you have to find a
way to build your trust up. Mhm.
>> Outside of that initial ring, it's it
should be a ring of
a handful of people that have
unconditional trust, right? And these
are the people that no matter what, like
you've given them that trust. You you
believe in them. And it should be a
small circle. And this is where I think
people go wrong. They're like, "Ah, you
know, I I I share everything with
people." Then they then they're crushed
when one of those people that they've
given unconditional trust with break it.
That's a problem. I have probably,
you know, my siblings are all really
close to me, so I have them. There's
four of them. Um, outside of that, I
have my, you know, I have my wife and a
select few friends, you know, that I
know that if I call, they're like,
"Let's we're good." Um, outside of that,
you should, everybody else should be
conditional trust. People should earn
your trust, right? They should be
honored to have it. Like, don't give it
away for free. And if you have
somebody's trust, you should respect
that. if they've given that to you be
but I think and I've seen it I people
give away trust way too much because the
person will be amazing in this one spot
and all of a sudden they get the halo
effect and they're like well they're
great here they must be great here it's
this it's this arc of they're awesome
everywhere and so I'm going to trust
them with these other things then when
again they break it they violate it
the way you feel is just the this this
violation of you know somebody took what
you gave them and just destroyed it.
It's hard to come back from that. It's
hard to once you re once you lose trust
like if you lose somebody's trust it's
really really hard to get back. Is there
anything you can do to get back, do you
think?
>> What I know that you can do, it doesn't
always work. You have to be accountable
for why you lost it. Whatever that is,
very specific.
It's going to take time and a lot of
consistency to consistency meaning that
you show them consistently time and time
again that you are a person that you
know can be trusted.
>> On um on leadership principles,
something I've heard you talk about as
well. Um what what do you think are the
most important principles as it relates
to leadership? Because we talked about
trust there and other things around
communication and all these things. Is
there is there anything we haven't
covered as it relates to being a great
leader in your perspective?
>> Somebody who's calm under chaos.
>> That would be my definition of a leader.
However, and I say that because
leadership is a feeling, Stephen, how do
you make these people feel as it relates
to my qualities as a leader? Do I do the
things that register with you as
leadership? As I can tell you when I was
on a a SWAT team, which is the special
weapons and tactics, this is where I
learned the true essence of leadership
because I had some amazing commanders
and and team leaders on that team were
under high stress, under a stress like
that. If you have people around you that
are keeping their composure, that's
leadership.
One of the elements there, I guess, as
when you're in the SWAT as well, is
dealing with huge amounts of uncertainty
when pressure is on. Sure. When your
life's at risk. I was reading about a
study, which I think you mentioned some
time ago, where they look at three
groups of people doing the same exam and
would were sort of trying to ascertain
how people make decisions with different
degrees of certainty and information.
>> Yeah. What the the study showed was
there were a group of students that you
know were taking a test in college and
they were told that you know they had
either passed or failed or they had no
idea whether they passed or failed. But
prior to that they were asked if they
would you know take a vacation and the
people who passed and the people who
failed there was a higher percentage of
them who chose to take a vacation after
getting news that they had either passed
college or failed college. the group
that didn't know, there was a third
group that was just like,
I'm un I'm unsure. Weren't able to
really make a decision and and so what
the what
>> So, just to be clear then on that third
group, they didn't have their exam
results back. So, they didn't take the
action to book.
>> They were told they were told that there
was some malfunction in ability to score
their test and they would get their
results at a later time.
>> Okay. And so then they were asked to,
you know, if they would also via a
vacation. And a farther fewer
percentage, I don't remember what it
was, but a farther uh a much less
percentage of them would take it than
the people who both passed because I
think there's like half the people who
passed or or were told they passed like
took the bought the vacation package. It
was like a vacation trip to Hawaii.
Around the same percentage, I believe,
who failed the exam bought the vacation
trip. But the people who couldn't decide
just they didn't have the cognitive
bandwidth to to really make a decision.
So the ambiguity of not knowing really
lessens our cognitive ability to to go
in a certain direction. And so when we
don't know where to go, we often don't
go anywhere.
>> That is a hallmark of great leaders that
they're able to decide even when there's
very low certainty.
>> Sure. I would think that would come
with, you know, the territory. I think
if you're if you're only a leader when
it's calm, then you're not really a
leader. You're somebody with a higher
salary and a title. Like leadership
really shows up in those type of
circumstances when when things are
uncertain. And so, you know, having the
ability to
manage things when not all the
information is there and doing the best
you can with it because, you know, often
times the the best decision to make is
the right one and the worst one is to
not make a decision at all. And so, if
you have those type of leaders who just
can't think through that problem, then
that's not a leader. I remember when I
spoke in Sa Paulo many years ago, Barack
Obama was on stage and he said that as
president like when he went and got bin
Laden in that compound in Pakistan that
they didn't know if Bin Laden was there,
they'd never visually properly ided him.
So he had to make that decision to risk
American lives with, as he said, 51%
certainty. Yeah.
>> Or very low certainty. And he says
that's the the thing about being
>> the president of the United States. You
make huge calls with very little
certainty. Yeah.
>> And I've always thought about that in in
terms of my day-to-day life. And it al
has made me conclude that the most
successful people that I've met do have
that ability to be low certainty and
make big calls.
>> Yeah.
>> Um with the peace of mind that they've
made that call with the best available
information. And then the sort of
inverse of that is some people listening
right now
>> with even small decisions are trying to
get to 100% certainty when obviously
100% certainty only exists in hindsight,
>> you know. And that that's that's a
really good that's a really good point.
I think that's a lot of people struggle
with that when it comes to just just to
own your decision like like own it like
whatever you choose to do.
>> If you if you make it not under high
emotion and you do the best you can with
the information that you have at that
time make a decision like you know as
they say it's you know if you make the
wrong decision then it's experience if
you make the right decision then it's
confirmation.
>> I think about this a lot. I think about
um how maybe everyone listening could
have a conversation with themselves
about their own relationship with
uncertainty. Like how good are you
dealing with situations where you don't
have much information? Yeah.
>> Um are you the type of person that's
able to make a decision and not like sit
sit in paralysis? And many people that
come up to me in the street and say they
want a new life or a new this or a new
that are um are choosing like the
certain misery of their current life
versus the uncertainty they see as they
look out into the void of like quitting
the job and going and playing violin in
Peru or something.
>> And um you know you you you bring up you
bring up something that um so in one of
our one of our recent classes that we
taught this month, we talked about
owning decision, right? And I shared the
story with the community and it it had a
pretty profound effect. And so I was uh
as a police officer, I was on patrol. It
was late at night. I'm driving down just
this two-lane road kind of in the middle
of nowhere. And I pull over to the side
and I'm just kind of like watching from
a from an angle, just people driving up
and down this road. This car flies by,
goes through a stop sign, doesn't stop.
It's a very nice luxury sedan. So, I
turn on my lights, pull him over, and I
said, "How you doing?" And he's like,
"I'm all right." I could tell this guy's
just like, he's flat drunk. And I shine
my light into his passenger. Uh, and
he's just like, he's passed out. Like,
he has he has he's not even coherent
that I'm probably standing there. So, I
get his driver's license and I'm like,
"Look, you're pretty bad off." And he's
like, "Are you going to call my dad?"
And I said, "Why would I do that?" He
goes, "Man," he goes, "This is car."
He's like, "He's going to be upset."
I said, "All right." So, I go back to my
patrol car and I I I look at this kid in
terms of he's had no priors. He's 16. He
has no prior driving record. So, I'm
making So, what's my decision now? I can
call for a DWI unit to come and and give
this guy a fuel sobriety test and he's
going to fail just because I could tell
how drunk he was. Or I could call his
dad. Now, I have to make a decision
because I have that type of discretion.
So, I have to think, do I take this kid
to do I have this kid go to jail and tow
his dad's car,
>> or do I call his dad and hope that's the
right decision because his dad will find
a way to make sure this doesn't happen
again. So, I had our dispatch give me
his phone, his parents' phone number,
and I called his dad. It's 11:00 at
night, and his mom answers, and I'm
like, you know, um, you know, Mrs.
Smith, this is, you know, Deputy O'Neal.
Um, I'm out here with your son, Jacob.
Oh my god, how is he? I'm like, he's
fine. And I'm like, I think he's been
drinking too much and I want to know if
you want to come get him. She's like,
can you talk to my husband? I said,
sure. He gets on the phone. Same thing.
And he's like, thank you. I will make
sure this doesn't happen again. I will
be there in 5 minutes. I have no idea
what happens at the end of this. But I
made that decision at that time. The
reason I'm sharing this is because when
I told that story in our community, I
asked everybody on the platform because
it's very engaging. And I said, and Evie
asked this question actually, and she
said, "How many of you would do the same
thing Desmond did?"
>> Probably should give context there that
Evie is your wife.
>> Evie is my wife. I'm sorry.
>> Pumporus.
>> Yes. A lot of people put in the comments
like, "I would do the same thing. Good
for him. The kids shouldn't go to jail."
And Evie was just like, "I would do the
exact opposite thing. I would have taken
him to jail. I would have towed the car
because I don't know if the consequences
of what his dad would do is is going to
outweigh the fact that he's going to go
to jail." And she's like, "What if I let
him go and he does the same thing next
week because he's not, you know, he
doesn't care what his father thinks?"
And she's like, "That to me was a
decision that I would have made." So I
bring that up for this purpose. We both
made a completely different decision. I
made it for the reasons I did. She made
it for the reasons that she did
metaphorically. Mine was true. This is
just what she said she would have done.
The point was is that we both owned it.
And a lot of times I think what happens
going back to what you just said is
people are so afraid to make a decision
for a number of different reasons and so
they just choose not to. Now again
people could look at this you know your
audience could look at this and be like
he should have taken him to jail. I
understand all of that. I had the
discretion and that's the decision I
made and I would make that decision
every time. But it's it's it's less
about that story and more about when you
decide on something with the information
you have at the moment. Do you own it or
do you as you said do you look back
later and have hindsight bias and be
like ah I should have known you can't do
that so many people try to live their
life in reverse like that and looking
back it's impossible it's impossible to
know so I do think and kind of to expand
on what you said I do think when it
talks about owning your decisions and
and being being thoughtful as it relates
to
why you're doing and what you're doing
and taking command of yourself and being
being a self leader decisions is making
that is is what it is. To go back to the
uncertainty aspects,
>> protecting your business's data is a lot
scarier than people admit. You've got
the usual protections, backup, security,
but underneath there's this
uncomfortable truth that your entire
operation depends on systems that are
updating, syncing, and changing data
every second. Someone doesn't have to
hack you to bring everything crashing
down. All it takes is one corrupted
file, one workflow that fires in the
wrong direction, one automation that
overwrites the wrong thing, or an AI
agent drifting off course, and suddenly
your business is offline, your team is
stuck, and you're in damage control
mode. That's why so many organizations
use our sponsor, Rubric. It doesn't just
protect your data. It lets you rewind
your entire system back to the moment
before anything went wrong. Wherever
that data lives, cloud, SAS, or onrem,
whether you have ransomware, an internal
mistake, or an outage, with Rubric, you
can bring your business straight back.
And with the newly launched Rubric Agent
Cloud, companies get visibility into
what their AI agents are actually doing,
so they can set guard rails and reverse
them if they go off track. Rubric lets
you move fast without putting your
business at risk. To learn more, head to
rubric.com.
Last month, I told you about our
sponsor, Function Health, and their team
who've developed a way of giving you a
full 360 view of what's going on inside
your body. They offer over 100 advanced
lab tests covering everything from
hormones, toxins, inflammation, heart
health, stress, and so much more. So,
Jack, who started this show with me, got
his first blood draw done a couple of
weeks ago. So, I thought I'd let him
tell you a little bit more about his
experience.
>> This test really opened my eyes to
personally what I should be doing with
my health. I hear a lot of information
in this podcast. I sit in every single
recording. So to know how I can relate
each one to me personally is super
valuable. You sign up and you schedule
your tests and once you're done you get
a little report like the one I have
here. I can see my inrange results, my
out of range results. And there's a
little AI function, too. So if I have
any questions about my out of range
results, I can just go in there and ask
it any question I want. And these tests
are backed by doctors and thousands of
hours of research.
>> You get an annual draw done and a
mid-year follow-up. So, if you want to
learn more, head over to
functionhealth.com/doac
where you can sign up for $365 a year.
I'll put the link in the description
below. It is just $1 a day for your
health
of that research you've done on
communication.
Is there anything we haven't talked
about today that really surprised you in
the research that really caused a
paradigm shift in what you thought
communication was and now what you think
it is? Yeah, the research showed that
your ability to build rapport with a
person
is what gives you the most power in
terms of that connection. And different
people, you know,
>> and how do you build rapport?
>> Most people think that this is one of
those things where you're just you're
just you're overly kind, you're very
complimentary,
uh you're talking about the weather, and
now we've built rapport and then we're
good. It's not how you build rapport. re
building rapport is understanding values
in terms of a person. Rapport is
understanding, you know, a person's
presence and what they're needing from
you. If I'm paying attention to you and
I'm engaged with you and I'm making you
feel seen and heard and understood and
by proxy, by the reciprocity of doing
that, you do the same thing for me.
That's rapport. When it comes into
building rapport with somebody, read the
room. If I came in and I have a list of
questions and I see you that you're
there's some emotional state that you're
showing. If I want to connect with you,
I ask about that. I need to put my stuff
aside before I can have the conversation
I want to have. I probably have to have
the conversation you want to have. And
at that moment, it may be understanding
what is going on in your headsp space. I
can say, "Hey, Stephen, you know, I'm
Desmond O'Neal. You know, I know you
were brought in this morning for for
these reasons. It's obvious to me right
now that you seem really upset. Can you
tell me what's going on right now?" And
you could say, you know, I don't know
what's going on. I'm super scared. I've
never been in jail before. My mom's sick
at home and I don't know if there's
anybody to take her to her. Now, how
much information now do I have, by the
way, that I can connect with you?
Because if you tell me, I am freaked
out. I don't know what's going on. What
do I now do? Do I go back to be like,
"Well, that sucks." And go back to my
list of questions. Or do I say, "How
best can I help you with that?"
>> And this builds rapport.
>> Yes. Because what I'm doing is I'm
showing empathy. I'm listening to you.
I'm I'm giving you what you want. I'm
lessening your ambiguity. I'm orienting
you in terms of the direction that
you're asking me to take you. You're
asking me for clarity in terms of what's
going to happen. I'm going to answer
that. I'm showing them that I am paying
attention to them. I'm being authentic.
I'm going to follow up with the things
that I do cuz I'm going to come back
later and be like, "Hey, we checked on
your mom. She was good. We pulled your
aunt in. Your aunt came and took care of
her. If anything else comes up, let me
know. I do have some questions that I
need to get to. This is important part
of the investigation, but I I can only
imagine that there's a lot on your mind
and if things come up through our
conversation, please please ask me."
>> That's rapport.
>> In those situations, I'm hearing many of
the things that I read in that book,
Influence by Robert Caldini,
>> Chaldini,
>> Chaldini, I'm hearing reciprocity. Yep.
>> You've done them a favor. So now they're
more likely to answer your questions.
>> Reciprocity is
giving somebody something with with the
the expectation that somewhere in the
future they will give you something
else. It's not a transactional thing.
It's not like the only reason I'm doing
this is because I want something from
you in exchange. That's transaction.
>> So So when you checked on that person's
mom, that was reciprocity.
That was me following up with a
commitment of saying that this is what
I'm going to do for you. You can do with
it what you want.
>> But you know that doing that is going to
increase the probability that they
answer your questions.
>> Knowing I do that regardless. I could
have he could have said, "You know what?
I I appreciate you. Thank you for
checking on my mom. Um I I want a
lawyer. I don't want to talk to you."
You know what I'm going to do? I'm going
to check on his mom. You know why?
Because that's what I said I was going
to do. You know why? Because that's my
self- congruence. That's what I do as a
person. When I give somebody my word,
I'm going to follow up with it. So, in a
situation like that, I will do those
things because that's what he he's
that's what I've told him I'm going to
do.
>> Is there anything else on um on the
point of having difficult conversations
that we haven't covered in your mind?
Cuz I know there's loads of people that
they want to get better at having those
tricky conversations and also just
dealing with a theme we see a lot is
like people very keen to deal with
difficult people. Is there anything
there that we haven't touched on? We've
got the plan framework, but just just
want to check there's nothing we've
missed.
>> No, I just think it was I just think it
was a plan framework. And it's not about
making things complicated. It's actually
about, you know, there's there's things
that you should take out, you know, when
it comes to communication as opposed to
always adding things in. You know, it
really becomes like extinction before
acquisition. So, I can I can tell you
when it comes to better communication,
there are three things that you should
stop doing right now. One of them is to
stop trying to be right.
One of them is to stop telling people
you understand. And the third one is
stop giving people your unsolicited
opinion. Now to break those down, stop
stop trying to be right. And we talked
about that one a little bit. The the
second one is stop telling people that
you understand. This is what I mean by
that. You can understand you can
understand a person's words. You will
never understand their headsp space in
terms of the the specificity of that.
And so what you will see is I if if
you're sharing a story like if you
shared a personal story with me let's
say you let's say your father had passed
away and I'm like you know what Stephen
I completely understand um my dad passed
away too when I was young so now we're
connected I have just
I've just taken away
that moment for you because I made it
about me because I I thought that I
understood something that you had
experienced in fact your experience of a
death or your experience of your father
at the moment is going to be completely
different than mine. But for me to tell
you that I understand is is
shortsighted. My girlfriend tells me
sometimes that she wants me to say that
I understand.
And I think what she's saying is that
maybe she wants to feel understood
and so she might be explaining how she
feels and then if I say do you know I
yeah know I do understand but do you?
Sometimes I get to the point where I I
do understand what she's saying.
>> You [clears throat] understand what
she's saying, but do you understand how
she truly feels?
>> No.
>> Okay. But that becomes
>> because I don't feel that.
>> You don't feel it.
>> But she just wants me to acknowledge.
>> She wants you to acknowledge it. So the
difference is in terms of it was being
genuine where you're like, look, I I
really understand how you feel. You
probably don't.
>> How do I make her feel understood in
that regard then without telling her I
understand?
>> To feel understood is to is to listen to
her to be like look, you know, I it
sounds it sounds tough. sounds, you
know, like this is something really on
your mind. Like, and it kind of goes
into our other thing. We're like, "Stop
giving people your opinion." You know,
if she's if she's expressing things to
you and she's sharing how she wants to
feel, she's probably not looking for you
to tell her what to do unless she's
asked you for that. The first thing that
we always do, and it happens all the
time, is like, "Let me tell you what I
think.
>> Try to fix it without having all of the
the emotions and the complexities of of
why it's not being done." And so to go
back to with your girlfriend, it really
is just a matter of trying to
understand, seeing where she's going
with it, asking her, you know, if there
ways that that, you know, we can we can
work to make it better or help you with
this. But as Stephen, she's just like, I
I want you to understand. I would just
tell her, I understand, just because
that's what she's looking for. You're
not going to have it in there. But if
you generally went to somebody and
you're like, oh, I understand. That's
what I'm asking you not to do. That's
what you shouldn't do. You shouldn't
generally think that you truly
understand another person because then
you're going like you're convinced that
you know and you're no longer curious in
terms of how they actually feel.
>> And on that last point about giving
giving the opinion, a lot of time
people, you know, when they're sharing
something, they just want you to create
the space. Simon Synynic said to me, he
goes, "Most of the time people just want
you to sit in the mud with them."
>> [clears throat]
>> And like I I naturally show up with like
my toolbox to try and fix the situation.
But a lot of the time, especially with
my my girlfriend, maybe she just wants
me to listen. Most people do, right? It
becomes like this identity headsp space
where people just are looking for the
sounding board for you, for your
girlfriend. Like you're the you're the
guy, you're the person, and that's what
she comes to you for. That's your job in
a lot of ways. And I don't mean that in
a negative thing, but it's just one of
those things where if that's what she
needs from you, then that's what you
give her. And a lot of people just want
as as as Simon Senk said where you said
it like just sit in the mud with them
and that's what they're asking you. If
she turns to you and say Stephen what
would you do here then she's asking you
but if not then don't give it
>> something I need to work on.
>> Yeah we all do.
>> Yeah cuz you cuz you I don't know
something about maybe the male brain but
it's probably not just men.
>> Can I talk real quick just about our
training community before we go? Is that
okay with you?
>> Yeah. because it is one of those where
like now uh what I spend all my time
with is is I'm an instructor for Beyond
Bulletproof which is a training platform
that that Evie and I that E and I host
and it really comes down to three prongs
of how do people helping people think,
helping people act, and helping people
leave with purpose. And I know we talked
about those things, but the reason I
bring that up is because there are so
many people, Stephen, that just as you
had talked about, they're they're
looking for they're looking for some
help. They're looking for some clarity.
They're looking for somebody to
influence them in some way because they
don't have good emotional regulation and
they're trying to get better in their
relationships. We've been fortunate to
to have that and that's kind of where,
you know, I don't I don't do a lot of
social media, you know, I don't do uh a
lot of other other things because I
spend my time here. As you know, we have
a closing tradition on the podcast, but
the last guest leaves a question for the
next. And the question that's been left
for you is,
what decision do you most regret? And
would things have turned out better if
you had made it differently?
Ouch, that's a spicy one. So
I
as much as this wants to be a spicy one,
I can I can categorically tell you that
there's not a decision that I've made
that I wish I would have made different.
And I say that because it kind of goes
back to I own my decisions in terms of
the things that I have done. I even when
the story that I shared about, you know,
when I was a police officer with the kid
who was drinking, like I own those
decisions. And in truth, like all of
those decisions have manifested itself
for me to sit down here with you today
and have this conversation. And so I
can't tell you that there's something
that I look back that I regret because I
think that there's things we learn from.
But I think for the most part, I don't
use hindsight bias. I don't look back to
say I wish there was something else. I
use those things to uh to grow and to
learn and be better. And you know, had I
made a difference decision, maybe you
and I wouldn't be sitting here. So none.
>> But you still I mean, if someone asked
me that, I'd have loads of answers. Like
what?
>> Just like the ways that I handled
situations in my life as an employee.
You know, I shouldn't shouldn't have
said that. I shouldn't have done that. I
you know, when my girlfriend said that,
do you know, I should have just listened
and I wish I had because I think our
relationship would be better or
you know, some grudge I held or
whatever, you know, like the the
messiness of being a emotional human. So
let me let me ask this and I think you
know I I do question at times that that
type of I wish and I regret I think that
also changes
who you are as a person if you're like I
would have gone back and done we we can
all do that in some and I don't mean
that's petty but in all some petty way
when I was writing my my thesis I would
always come to my thesis adviser and
she'd be like nope this isn't good this
isn't good this isn't good and so when I
was done there was like I had like 30 p
she's like just put this in the parking
lot. Like maybe we'll look at this,
maybe we won't. So when I was done with
my thesis, I had 30 pages that were in
the parking lot. And I went to her and I
I feel like this is a lot of mistakes.
And she goes, you had to have this to
have this. And so when when I hear that
when it's just like, oh, I wish I would
have done these things different. You
would be a different person, right? It's
all those perspectives. It's all those
little things that you code and become a
different person. You would be a
different person if you had done those
things differently. I'm not saying
better or worse, but I'm saying I don't
I don't think that's a reason to look
back and regret things.
>> Yeah, I probably would still have those
mistakes in my future if I hadn't made
them in the past as well. So maybe maybe
the very fact that I can identify them
means that my self-awareness grew based
on them. I like I'm never going to treat
someone like that again or I'm never
going to say that thing again because I
learned the lesson. So I'm a better
person
>> today because of that.
>> Yeah.
>> Desmond, thank you.
>> Thank you. Thank you so much for doing
what you do and uh this is your you said
this is your first podcast which is
exciting.
>> It's my first podcast.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Thank you. [music]
>> If there's anything we need, it is
connection, especially in the world
we're living in today. And that is
exactly why we created these
conversation cards. Because on this
show, when I sit here with my guests and
have those deep, intimate conversations,
this remarkable thing happens time and
time again. We feel deeply connected to
each other. At the end of every episode,
the guest I'm interviewing leaves a
question for the next guest and we've
turned them into these conversation
cards. And we've added these twist cards
to make your conversations even more
interesting. And there are so many more
twists along the way with the
conversation cards. This is the brand
new edition. And for the first time
ever, I've added to the pack this gold
card, which is an exclusive question
from me. But I'm only putting the gold
cards in the first run of conversation
cards. So get yours now before the
limited edition gold cards are all gone.
Head to the link in the description
below. [music]
[music]
>> [singing]